Mar Baselios College of Engineering and Technology (MBCET), is an engineering educational institution located in Nalanchira, Trivandrum, Kerala, India offering engineering education and research. The college is located on a hillock in the Bethany Hills. The educational Institution is situated along the way from Kesavadasapuram to Mannathala route, this road further extends to north of Kerala as the MC Road.
APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University has notified the conferment of autonomous status to MBCET by UGC for a period of 10 years (2020-21 to 2029-30). Autonomy provides greater flexibility to the institution in improving the quality of education towards achieving academic excellence.As an autonomous college, MBCET will have the freedom to: 

Determine and prescribe its own courses of study and syllabi, and restructure and redesign the courses to suit local needs.
Offer student-centric courses including a wide range of electives with freedom in choice of courses.
Regularly update the syllabus in accordance with the evolution of technology, trends in research and changing requirements of the industry.
Evolve methods of assessment of students’ performance that is well integrated and aligned with the teaching and learning process.
Conduct of examinations and notification of results in a timely manner
Promote healthy practices such as community service, extension activities and projects for the benefit of the society..
Autonomy provides the opportunity for enhancement in the quality of education and reflects the efforts of the institution for the achievement of excellence in academic performances and self governance. The degree will be awarded to the students by APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University, based on the evaluation and recommendation by the college. The name of the college will be mentioned in the degree certificates.

The college is a part of the Mar Ivanios Vidyanagar Campus which has 22 educational institutes, including primary, secondary and higher secondary schools, training institutes and an arts college.
The college which started operations in July 2002 is affiliated to the University of Kerala and the Kerala Technological University.
It is one of the top ranked colleges in Kerala for engineering. All B.Tech programmes have been accredited by the National Board of Accreditation w.e.f 1 July 2016 for two years.
The following courses in MBCET are approved by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) and sanctioned by the Government of Kerala, leading to the B.Tech. Degree of the University of Kerala and Kerala Technological University. It has an annual intake of 600 students for B.Tech courses. 
The distribution of seats are as follows: Civil Engineering : 120 seats, Computer Science & Engineering : 120 seats, Electrical & Electronics Engineering : 120 seats, Electronics & Communications Engineering : 120 seats, Mechanical Engineering : 120 seats. MBCET offers M.Tech programmes in the CSE, EEE, ME, CE and ECE Departments.
Principal of Mbcet: Dr. Abraham T Mathew.
Head of the Department (HOD) of computer science department (CSE): Tessy Mathew.
Head of the Department (HOD) of Electrical department (EEE): Dr. Nisha G K.
Head of the Department (HOD) of Electronics department (EC): Dr. M. J. Jayashree
Head of the Department (HOD) of Mechanical department (ME):  Rajesh T N.
Head of the Department (HOD) of Civil department (CE):  Dr. Jayasree S.
 
 
The Department of Computer Science and Engineering offers a 4 years undergraduate program leading to the award of B.Tech Degree in Computer Science and Engineering. Every year 120 students are admitted to the program. Year in which the department began: 2002.
Electrical & Electronics engineering deals with the generation, transfer and conversion of electric power with the aid of mechanical, electronic circuits and computer systems. Year in which the department began: 2002.
Electronics and Communication Engineering deals with the teaching of electronic engineering such as analog circuits, digital circuits, VLSI, and solid state conductors, and communication engineering, networking, and digital signal processing.
The Mechanical Engineering department of Mar Baselios College has various contributions and had students develop environment friendly engines. The batch of 2005 had introduced the G-Mech or "Generation Mech" as a student body to unite future mechanical engineering students and act as a branch student body. Head of the Department: Rajesh T N. Year in which the department began: 2005. Student Body: Association of Mechanical Engineers (G-Mech). Some notable mechanical projects in MBCET include, Plastic waste disposal, Thermo-acoustic refrigerator, Coconut dehusker, Multi-purpose farming machine, Compressed air engine, V II 400 redesign and Diesel two-wheeler.
Civil Engineering, Year in which the department began: 2005. Student Body: Civil Engineering Students Association (CESA). UTBHAV - Annual Technical fest by Civil Engineering Department.
Prof. Joseph Cherian, Professor & Head of Department of Science &Humanities.
 
Facilities:
Library
The backbone of MBCET is the library. There are 21,000 engineering books for the six engineering branches. A periodical section has 190 national and international journals. Back volumes of journals, question papers etc. are available for reference. MBCET Library Portal[16]
Award for MBCET Library portal[17]
Hostel
MBCET's men's hostel is Mar Aprem Hostel and it is located behind the college. The ladies stay at the foot of the hillock at the Sacred Heart Hostel along with students from other institutions in the Mar Ivanios Vidyanagar.
WiFi and Intranet
The campus is fully networked, with optical fiber inter-building backbone. Services like MOODLE, Student Management System, MBCET Webmail which uses VMware Zimbra, Digital Library-DSpace and centralized License server for software like AutoCAD, StaaD, Pspice etc. are provided. Leased line connection of 50Mbps provides internet connection. 24 hr campus wide WiFi connection is provided to faculty and students.
Other facilities include: Amenities center, Chapel, Canteen and Central Computing Facility.
NATIONAL SERVICE SCHEME (NSS)
The NSS unit of the college is a very active one which does a number of Social Service activities in and out of the college. It Conducts campaigns to make students aware of the society. Assistant professor Jinu Baby is the program office of the unit, Sajin James and Sumayya s are the volunteer Secretaries of the unit.
Professional student bodies:
The college shows keen interest in developing a professional caliber among the students. This was done with the help of various international organisations forming student bodies with the college. Mar Baselios College in association with the Institution of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (IEEE), Kerala circle, Computer Society of India, Thiruvananthapuram chapter, and the Institution of Electronics and Telecommunication Engineers (IETE) had organised national conference on communication systems and networks (CoMNeT- 2010).[26] The Mar Baselios College in association with the Institution of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (IEEE), Kerala circle, Computer Society of India, Thiruvananthapuram chapter, has also conducted a national conference on broadband technologies in 2008.[27]
Computer Society of India
The college is an institutional member of the Computer Society of India. The CSI Student Branch of Mar Baselios College of Engineering & Technology was inaugurated on 24 September 2004. Over the years, the CSI branch has proved itself to be the most active association in the college. It is also the biggest student branch in Kerala, boasting 153 members.
The CSI branch has been conducting an annual technical quiz competition under the name BYTES. CSI has in its own way been a trend setter in the matter of conducting events regularly. The branch also had the privilege of hosting the State Level Student Convention in 2006.
 
An important event and a milestone in the history of the CSI Student Chapter was the 26th National Student Convention - NSC 2010 that the Mar Baselios Student Branch hosted in association with Trivandrum Chapter of CSI from 2–4 September 2010.
 
The CSI student branch of MBCET was selected as the Best Student Branch from among engineering colleges in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Pondicherry for the year 2010-2011. This is the second consecutive year that the student branch has received this award.
 
Indian Society for Technical Education
The college has been an institutional member of the ISTE since 2005. A chapter of the society is functioning in the college with 37 members.
 
IEEE student branch
An IEEE student body was set up on 14 February 2006. A number of students are involved in the activities conducted by this group.
 
Deepthi Anna George, student of Computer Science branch has been selected to receive the prestigious IEEE Computer Society - Richard E. Merwin Scholarship - 2011 in recognition of her exemplary involvement in student chapter activities and excellent academic achievement. She is one among fourteen students chosen from colleges and universities throughout the world for this scholarship. The scholarship includes an award and amount of $2,500.
 
Finishing school:
In alliance with EDS Technologies, Mar Baselios College of Engineering and Technology has set up a finishing school to provide industry specific technical training in Product Lifecycle Management (PLM).
 
Green Dream:
An environmental initiative was undertaken by students of Mar Baselios College of Engineering along with nine other colleges to form Green Dream. The group along with UST Global and "TidyCity" ran a clean-up drive on Veli beach.
 
Sports and College Festivals:
Crossroads
Mar Baselios College of Engineering and Technology (MBCET) holds an annual technical and cultural event named CROSSROADS. This is conducted in the month of February or March. It is often a three- or four-day event.
 
Hash:
Hash is the annual inter college technical fest conducted by Department of Computer Science and Engineering. It was first conducted in the year 2018. It is usually conducted in odd semesters.
 
Sports:
Joji Varghese is the coach for the basketball team and is in charge of Physical Education. 
 
Basketball:
Mar Baselios College has a basketball team. This team has won several accolades and awards at various intra college basketball tournaments. It hosts the Baselios Trophy all-Kerala Professional Colleges Basketball Tournament.
 
Table tennis:
Mar Baselios won awards in table tennis in Kerala University's inter-collegiate table tennis tournament held at the Government Engineering College in 2009.
 
Badminton:
Mar Baselios Engineering College won the title in the Kerala University inter-collegiate women’s badminton tournament held on 9 October 2012.
 
The 33.5 feet-tall statue of Jesus Christ, the tallest Christ statue in the country, was unveiled and blessed by Major Archbishop of the Syro-Malankara Catholic Church Baselios Cleemis at the campus of Mar Baselios College of Engineering and Technology on 29 September 2012.
 
APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (initially Kerala Technological University),a State Government University, came into existence on May 21, 2014 with an aim to give leadership to the technology related policy formulation and Engineering Planning for the State. It also emphasizes to improve the academic standards of the Graduate, Post Graduate and Research Programmes in Engineering Science, Technology and Management and regulate the academic standards of all colleges affiliated to the University. The main thrust areas of the University are Research,Development and Innovation
PREAMBLE
The Malankara Syrian Catholic Church has been in the field of Education in the State for
over Eight Decades having established hundreds of Primary Secondary and Higher
Secondary Schools industrial Training institutes and a few Arts and Science Colleges Mar
Baselios College of Engineering and Technology (MBCET established in 2002 by the Major
Archdiocese of Trivandrum is administered by it through the Malankara Catholic Educational
Society realizing the need in the changing social verano for an agency to encounter the
challenges in Education The Society has ventured into the specialized areas of Higher
Education such as Medical Science Cite Science and Management Studies also Set against
the backdrop of the serene and panoramic Mar ivanios Vidyanagar at Nalanchira away from
the hustle and bustle of the city life, yet enjoying a pride of place in the heart of
Thiruvananthapuram city, the MBCET campus provides an ideal milieu tor academic pursuits
The College is located in a verdant and serene environment just 5 km from the heart of the
city among 17 educational institutions Aesthetically designed buildings in nine blocks spread
over the campus nave a total built-up area of over 33130 sq m An eco-friendly infrastructure
concept has been executed Rain water harvesting has been implemented right from the
inception of the Institution Each block is connected by Pedestrian Bridge, retaining the
separate entity of each branch of Engineering studies controlled by the Administrative Hoad
FOUNDER &amp; HIS VISION
The Founder of the College His Beatitude Moran Mor Cyril Baselios Catholicos and the first
Major Arch Bishop of Trivandrum established this Institution sublime objective namely, to
provide quality Technical Education based on fundamental human values.In the words of the
Founder This Engineering College is meant to train and develop men and women of higher
caliber equipped with the most modern scientific knowledge and technological skills destined
not only to help our people in their march towards progress but to also to bring glory and
honour to our people and our country College are to strive tor excellence and skills and in
the pursuit of The Students success in life in terms of their commitment to bring happiness to
our fellow beings and for the development of our Nation.
PATRON
His Beatitude Moran Mor Baselios Cardinal Cleemis, Catholicos and Major Archbishop of
Trivandrum, is the Patron of our College As the President of the Malankara Catholic
Educational Society under which the College functions. His Beatitudo executes the
administration through the Governing Council of the College.As His Beatitude puts it &quot;We
wish to reach out to all sections of our society without the distinction of caste, creed, etc in
short Mar Bosolon College of Engineering and Technology is envisaged to be a glaring
example of the philosophy of education and the apostolate of Human Resource
Development which the Major Archdiocese of Trivandrum has been pursuing for the last
eight decades”.
 
VISION
To be an Institution moulding globally competent professionals as epitomes of Noble Values
MISSION
To transform the Youth as technically competent, ethically sound and socially committed
professionals by providing a vibrant learning ambience
CORE VALUES
Integrity
Tolerance
Commitment
Social Responsibility
Professional Excellence Accountability &amp; Innovation
GOALS &amp; OBJECTIVES
The College aims at achieving the integral development of human personality so as to
ensure the possibility of living a fully human existence. It endeavours to contribute in placing
spiritually inspired human beings at the centre of the Universe in the New Millennium
ensuring the creative use of Science and Technology, in the context of a techno-centric life.
In order to accomplish this special endeavour will be made to enable the students.
To strive for excellence in life
To promote scientific enquiry
To acquire and apply knowledge to the welfare of humanity To be the agents of qualitative
social changes
To use Science &amp; Technology for the preservation of human and human dignity.
values To apply Science &amp; Technology for universal brotherhood by being agents of the
Gospel of Love and to be architects of future
QUALITY POLICY STATEMENT
We at MBCET are committed to quality to be globally competent in Technical Education
pursuing its quest for excellence in teaching learning innovation and research guided by
noble values ethical vigour and social commitment enabling the stakeholders to adapt
 
themselves to varying technologies and environment for the preservation and improvement
of life
CIN ALTUM (Leading to the Heights of Excellence
MOTTO DUCH
GOVERNING BODY
His Beatitude Moran Mor Baselios Cardinal Cleemis Catholicos -Chairman
Ri Rev Msgr Dr Mathew Manakarakavil-Member
Rt Rev Msgr Dr Varkey Attupurath- Member
Fr Nelson Valiyaveetti -Member
Fr. John Vilayil- Member
Fi Wilson Thattaruthundil- Member
Or. M. Ayyappan-Member
Mr. Biju B varghese - Member
Dr TM George-Member &amp; Secretary
Prof. S Viswanatha Rao -Member
Ms Jomole Joseph Peedikayil -Member
Nominee of the Regional Officer AICTE- Ex Officio
Director of Technical Education- Ex Officio
Nominee of the University -Ex Officio
An Industrialist Technologist Educationist from the region nominated by the
State Government
Advisory Board
Mr John Mathal AS (Rota) Former Chief Secretary Govt of Kerala Mr Jacob Punnoose. IPS
(Retd. former DGP Kerala Mr John P Zachario Director VSSC Trivandrum
Or S Unnikrishna Pillai Former Principal. REC (NIT). Calicut
 
De Chem Nayar Emeritus Professor Curtin University Australia Dr Vijayan K. Asan,
Professor University of Dayton Ohio USA Dr. Achuthsankar S. Nair, Head. Dept of
Computational Biology &amp;
Bioinformatics. Uty of Kerala
Dr Saji Gopinath Professor IIM Kozhikode
Mt Alexander Varghese Chief Administrative Officer UST Global
Trivandrum
Mr Jayan P Nair. Senior Vice President. IBS Software Services
Trivandrum
Mr. Rajesh Nair, CTO and Founder Degree Controls inc USA
COLLEGE COUNCIL
1 Fr John Viley Bursar
2 Dr TM George Principal
3. Prof S Viswanatha Rao(Vice Principal)l
4 Prot. Paul Thomas (Dean PG)
5 Dr Neethu Roy (Asst Dean) - R&amp;D
6 Dr Tessy Mathew (HoD - CS)
7 Dr M Jayashree (HoD - EC)
8 Dr M Satyakumar (HoD - CE)
9 Prof AS Shajilal (HOD - EE)
10 Mr. T.N Rajesh (HOD - ME)
11 Prof Joseph Chenan (HoD - SH)
12 Ms Christi Francis (ADPE)
13 Ms Asha S.(Asst Prof - CSE)- Nominated
14 Dr George Zacharia (Prof - S &amp; H) - Nominated
 
15. Dr Nisha GK (Asst Prof. EE) - Nominated
Management Administration
Bursar : Fr. John Vilayil
Asst. Bursar : Fr. Raju Parukoor
Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) is a body
constituted in accordance with the norms of the National Assessment and Accreditation
Council (NAAC) an autonomous body of the UGC The objective of this body is to formulate
and propose quality measures to be implemented in the college to enhance and sustain the
quality performance of the Institution The IQAC is constituted with the following office-
bearers
Dr. T. M. George, Principal - Chairman
Management Representative:
Fr. John Vilayil (Bursar)
Senior Administrative Officers:
Prof S Viswanatha Rao, Vice-Principal
Prof. Paul Thomas, Dean (P G)
Dr. Noethu Roy. (Asst. Dean-R&amp;D)
Stakeholders Representatives
Industry : Ms. Geetha Kumari (Chief Engineer, KSEB)
Mr. Biju Philip (Sr. Vice President, Envestnet) Mr. Ajith Kumar G S.
Alumni : Mr. Ajith Kumar G S.
Mr. Jerrin Chacko
Co-ordinator : Prof. (Dr.) George Zacharia
Members
Dr. MJ. Jayashree (HoD, ECE)
Dr. Tessy Mathew (HOD, CSE)
Dr. M. Satyakumar (HoD, CE)
Mr. Rajesh T.N. (HoD, ME)
 
Prof, AS. Shajilal (HoD, EEE)
Prof Joseph Cherian (HOD. SA H)
Mr. Deepak Raj (ADPE)
Mr Praveen GL (Asst. Prof. Dept. of CS)
Ms Ann George (Asst Prof. Dept. of CE)
Mr. Aravind P (Asst. Prof. Dept. of ME)
Ms. Deepa PL (Asst. Prof. Dept of ECE)
Ms p. Sandhya (Asst. Prof. Dept of EEE)
Ms Sabitha S. Nair (Asst. Prof. Dept. of S&amp;H)
COURSES OFFERED
MBCET offers the following courses approved by the All India Con for Technical Education
(AICTE) and sanctioned by the Gov of Kerala, leading to the B.Tech., M.Tech and Ph.D
Degree of the APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University
Branch of Study No. of Seats
B.Tech. Programmes
1) Civil Engineering 120+6(Fee Wavier)
2) Computer Science &amp; Engineering 120+6(Fee Wavier)
3) Electrical &amp; Electronics Engineering 120+6(Fee Wavier)
4) Electronics &amp; Communication Engineering 120+6(Fee Wavier)
5) Mechanical Engineering 120+6(Fee Wavier)
M.Tech. Programmes
1) Computer Science &amp; Engineering 30
2) Machine Design 18
3) Power Control and Drives 18
4) Telecommunication Engineering 18
 
5) Structural Engineering 18
6) Control Systems 18
7) Signal Processing 18
COLLEGE STAFF
Principal Dr. T. M. George, M.Sc. (Engg), Ph.D.
Vice - Principal : Prof. S. Viswanatha Rao ME. Senior Member IEEE
Deans Prof. Paul Thomas ( PG)
Dr. Neethu Roy (Asst. Dean R&amp;D)
 
Department of Civil Engineering
Professor &amp; Head Dr. M. Satyakumar, M.Tech. Ph.D
Professors Prof. P. S. Abraham, B.Arch., MCP
Dr. Neethu Roy, M. Tech., Ph.D.
 
Associate Professor Dr. S. Jayasroo, M. Tech. Ph.D
Asst. Professors
Ms. Bindu Biju, M. Tech
Ms. Ann George, M. Tech. (Study leave)
Ms. Tiany D. B. M. Toch
Ms. Muthulakshmi, M.Tech
Ms, Jean Molly Simon, M.Tech
Mr. Jaya S. Pilot, M.Tech
Ms. Anupama Krishnan, M. Tech. Ms. Lakshmi Chandran M., M.Tech
Ma. Parvathy U. M. Tech.
Med. Sherin Mathew, M.Tech Mr Akhil Raj S.R.. M.Tech
Ms. Linda Joso, M.Tech
 
Ms. Anita A M Tech
Ma. Aneena Babu, M.Tech
Dr Jisha SV. M.Tech. Ph.D
Ms. Nimisha Anna Jacob, M.Tech
Ma. Smrithi Cheriyath, M.Tech.
Ms. Rintu Johnson. M. Tech.
Ms. Athira LC. M.Tech Ma Akhila AM M. Toch
Ms. Anupama Krishna D. M.Tech Ms Panchami lal, M.Tech.
Mr. Jomy Joseph Peedikayil, M. Tech.
Mr Sijo M. Saji, M. Tech.
Mr. Jobin Joy, M.Tech
Department of Computer Science &amp; Engineering
Associate Professor &amp; Head: Dr. Tessy Mathew, M.Tech Ph.D
Professors
Dr. R.Vikraman Nair, 8 Sc (Engg), DEA PhD
Prof. Raju K Gopal B.Sc. (Engg), M. Tech.
Asst. Professors
Ms S Asha, M.E
Ms. Elizabeth B. Varghese, M Tech (Study keve) )
Mr. GL Praveen. M. Tech
Mr. V. S. Shibu, M. Tech. Ma VS. Deviprilya, M.Tech.
Ms. Anne Dickson, M. Tech.
Ms. BR. Poorna, M.E
Ms. RS. Divya, M. Tech.
 
Dr. Jisha John, M.Tech. Ph.D
Mr. Shon J. Das, M. Tech
Ms Merin Kuriakose,M.Tech
Ms. Angel C. M. Tech
Mr. Robin ph M Tech
Me Aswathy Ravikumar M Tech
Ms Gayathri KS. M Tech
Mr. Binu Jose A, M.E
Ms Jisha Jose, ME
Ms Shini Renjith M.Tech
Ms Kiran Baby, M.Tech
Mr. Ramjith RP, M Tech
Ms Jayalekshmi . M. Tech
Ms Jesna Mohan. M Tech
Department of Electrical &amp; Electronics Engineering
Professor &amp; Head Prot A S Shajilat, M. Tech
Associate Professors
Dr GK Nisha M Tech, Ph.D
Ms Elizabeth Varghese: M. Tech
 
Asst. Professors
Mr R S Praveen Raj. M Tech
Ms. P Sheenu ME
Mr FR Rejish Babu. ME
Ms P Sandhya. M Tech
 
Ms Jomole Joseph Peedikayıl M Tech
Dr. Shalu George K ME Pn.D
Ms Shyju Susan Mathew, M. Tech (Study leave)
Ms. AV Soumya M Tech
Ma Charivi Soly Rajan. M. Tech (Study leave)
Ms Manju Sreekumar M. Tech
Ms Manju Ann Mathews M Tech (Study leave)
Ms SurasmiNL M Tech
Ms. Vandana P M Tech
Ms Anu Gopinath M Tech (Study leave)
Mr Aswin R B M. Tech
Ms AND Archana, M Toch.(Sudy leave)
Mr Midhun M Tech
Ms Keerthi S Nair M. Toch
Ms Jeneena Babu M Tech
Ms Divya MD. M.E
Ms Ashni Elisa George, M. Tech
Ms Shilpa Susan Peter M Tech
Ms Shilpa George, M. Tech
Ms. Anila AV M Tech
Ms. Arya S. M Tech
Ms. Anju Jacob. M Tech
Department of Electronics &amp; Communication Engineering
Professor &amp; Head :: Dr. MJ Jayashroe, M.Tech. Ph.D
 
Professors
Prof S Viswanatha Rao, ME Senior Member IEEE
Prof. Paul Thomas, M. Tech LLB, PMP. C(Eng FIE. LMASI
Dr Jayakumari J. M. Tech, Ph.D
Asst. Professors
Ms. Luxy Mathews, B.Sc. B.Tech. M. Tech.
Ms. Ancy S Anselam M.Tech
Ms. PS. Swapna, M. Tech
Ms. Teena Rajan. M. Tech
Dr P Sreedevi M. Tech. Ph D
Ms. PL Deepa. M. Tech
Mo Lani Rachel Mathew, M.Tech
Mr. Niyas K. Haneefa, M Tech, (Study leave)
Mr. Jinu Baby, ME
Ms. Ann Mary Alex, M. Tech
Mr. Anoop K. Johnson, M.Tech
Ms Poorna R Prabhu, M.Tech
Ms. Athira V, M. Tech
Ma. Remya Annie Eapen. M.E
Ms. PP. Hema, M.Tech
Ms. Riya John, M. Toch
Ms Lakshmy S, M. Tech.
Mr. Shiras S.N, M. Tech
 
Ms. Anu Susan Philip, M. Tech
Mr. Sherry Varghese George, M.Tech
Ms. Roselin Raju, M.Tech
Ms Amritha B M Tech
Ms. Ancy Joy, M.Tech Mr Arun JS, M. Tech.
Mr. Jithin M. George, M Tech Mr. Jijo Jose,M.Tech.
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Assistant Professor &amp; Head : Mr T.N. Rajesh. M.Tech
Associate Professors
Mr. Remil George Thomas, M.Tech
Dr. Muraleedharan Nair M.Tech, Ph.D
Asst. Professors
Mr. KS. Venkatesh, M. Tech
Mr M. Pradeep. M Tech
Dr. MB. Nidhi, M.Tech Ph.D
Mr. Hari Venkat. M.Tech
Mr. AS. Ayawer, M Tech
Dr V. Vinod, M Tech. Ph.D
Mr VP Premchand, M. Tech
Dr Rupesh S M Tech PhD
Mr. Aravind P. M. Tech
Mr Deepak G Dilip. M. Tech
Mr Unnikrishnan G M Tech
Mr. Deepak B. M Tech
 
Mr Roshan George Koshy. M Tech
Mr Ajeesh MV M Tech
Ms Ruby Maria Syriac ME
Mr. Vinod V M Tech
Mr Supt S M Toch
Mr Kedar Mohan. M. Tech
Mr Renjith H. M Tech
Mr. Vishnu Prasad KR M Tech
Mr. Raveesh G. M.Tech
Mr Deepak B.S, M. Tech
Mr Bobin Saji George. M. Tech
Mr. Vishnu Asok JS, M. Tech
Mr Aashish John M. Tech
Ms. Melvin Jacob, M, Toch
Department of Sciences &amp; Humanities
Professor &amp; Head : Prot. Joseph Cherian MSC MPM
Professors
Dr. George Zacharia. MA PGDTE, PhD.
Prof Y. Mathew, MSc MPh
 
Asst. Professor
Ms Sabitha S Nai M.Sc BEd M Phil.
De. MT Savitha, M.Sc BEd Ph. D
Dr. Dhanya Ramachandran, MSc. MA PhD
 
Dr. Neeradha CK, MSc. MEd.. Phd
Ms Lakshmi J.S MSe BEd
Dr Archana P Das, MSc. M.Phil PhD
Ms Lakshmi i, M. Sc. B. Ed M. Phil
Ms. Jisha M Sc. B. Ed. M Phil.
Ms. Uma M. M Se B. Ed. M Phil
Dr. GP Krishna Mohan, M.Sc. Ph. D.
Dr Veena Nair. MA. M.Phil. Ph D.
Dr Vidya Vilas, M.Sc Ph.D
Dr. Meena Kumari M.Sc. PhD
Guest Faculty : Mr Vinu V.MA
Department of Physical Education
Asst. Director of Physical Edn.
Ms Christi Francis, MPED.DCA M.Phil
Mr Deepak Raj. M.P.Ed DCA
Placement Coordinator : Mr. Justin Joseph M.Sc M Tech MBA
Student Counselors
Dr Shobha Treasa George. M.Sc. Ph.D. MFT, CPT (USA)
Fr. Bitty Mathew. MSW M.Div
Soft Skill Trainers
Reney Varghese. BSc M.B.A
Nursing Station in-Charge
St. Alex SH
Technical Staff
 
Department of Civil Engineering
Trade Instructor
Mr Manon Mony
Mr Babu R
Lab Instructor Gr.
Mr Johnson George
Mr Edwin Roy E
Lab Instructor Gr II
Ms Dhanalekhmi M C
Mr Vijin V.J.
Lab Assistant Gr. I
Mr. Shijin Kumar R.V.
Ms Deeparani V
Mr. Arun.
Ms. Vidyamol S
Ms Renchu Mohan R
Mr Merlin T Thomas
Department of Computer Science Engineering
Lab Instructor Sr. Grade : Ms.K.C Linumole
Lab instructor Gr I
MG Priya
Me. Rejani L
Me. Naicy M John
Lab Assistant: Ms Vichitra VEER.
 
Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering
Trade Instructor : Mr. V. Ramachandran Nair
Lab Instructor Gr I
M S. Prabha
Mr E. Senthilkumar
Mr. Rajeev Mons
Lab Instructor Gr II
Ms. Shabina N
Ms. Smiji R. S.
Mr. Ratheesh Kumar V. S
Mr Vishnuchandran C. L
Lab Assistant Gr I
Ms Suchithra MS
Mr. Sajan S.S.
Mr Midhun Gopal Mr. Anand B.H.
Mr. Arun N
Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering
Trade Instructor Mr. K. Ramachandran Nair
Lab Instructor Sr. Grade : Ms. Manju Suresh
Lab Instructor Gr I
Mr.S.M. Ajith Kumar
Mr. C. S. Shinin
Mr. Anilkumar B s
Ms. Sarika US
 
Ms. Swapna Lekha U.
Lab Instructor Gr.II
Mr. Rajendran H
Ms. Smitha S.L
Ms Hanna Varghese
Lab. Assistant Gr. I
Ms Veeshna G
Mr. Dhaneesh Raj. D.
 
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Workshop Superintendent Mr. G Sukumaran Asari, B.Tech,
Trade Instructors
Mr. S Dharmaraj
Mr. S. Muraleedharan Nair
Mr. R Vijayakumar
Mr. Krishnankutty
Workshop Instructor Gr. 1
Mr Sijo Thomas
Mr. Anil Kumar RS
Mr. S.C Aneesh
Mr. D. Shaji
Workshop Instructor Gr II
Mr Biju Androose
Mr Aneesh Rajan AT
 
Weider : Mr Biju K
Workshop Asst Gr i
Mr Prasanth S S
Mr Shaji P
Department of Science &amp; Humanities
Tutor : Ms Shimamol C.
Lab Assistant :
Mr Praveen R
Mr Abhijith S
 
ITMS Division
Programmer. Sel Grade Ms Reena Rajan
Ass System Administrator Ms V S Alosius
Asst. Network Administrator: Mr. Jiju Wilfred
Lab instructor Gr Ms L Sindhumol iM
Programmer r Shibulal PK
Junior System Supp. Techn : Mr Laiju B
Lab Assistant G Mr. Jith C Nair
Data Entry Operator : Ms Prya Rani K
Library Staff
Librarian: Mr Binu K John. BSc.MUSE MPh PGDCA
Assistant Librarians
Ms. Anjana G M. Sc MISC
Mr Sambhu BK B.Com Musc
Library Assistant : Mr. Subeesh T BA MLIS
 
Office Assistant: Ms. Sherin Mary Joseph BCom PGDCA
 
Office Staff
Senior Superintendent: Mr VK Kuriakose. BSc
Section Officers
Mr Mohan George. B Com
Dr B Chandrika MSc PhD
 
Senior Office Assistants
Mr. Renny Thomas Abraham B.Com. PGDCA
Mr Jacob Varghese
Ms Shiji George. BA
Mr. D Joykutty, BA PGDHRM
Accountant: Mr. Alju Look. B.Com COPA
Receptionist: Ms Accamma Kumary George, MA, PGOM
Confidential Assistant : Ms Soni Derry, MS B.Ed DSM
Office Assistant : Ms Bandhya RS B.Com. CFA TTC
Store Assistant : Ms Rema GSBA
Office Assistant : Ms Sijla S, M.Sc
Clerical Assistant : Ms Jancy B S
Attender Gr I : Mr Mathew Thomas
Attenders
Mr Anish Babu
Mr Sabu B S
Mr Retnakaran C
 
Mr Rejy John
Peons: Mr Anilkumar A
GENERAL DISCIPLINE
Discipline, both in personal and professional matters, is essential for the success of an
Engineer Orderly behaviour on campus will love one&#39;self-esteem and will help in having
good interpersonal relations. The high level of discipline consistent with the superior
standards of the Centres of Excellence in Higher Education show to maintained on the
campus. The following guidelines will help in maintaining discipline on campus and they shall
be adhered to by all
1. Courteous behaviour, an essential ingredient of Professional Competence, is expected
from all. Dishonesty, obscenity in word or act or any other acts of misconduct will invite
disciplinary action
2 Students shall wear the prescribed uniform whenever on the 3 Students shall wear the ID
cards while on the campus
3. Students shall wear ID card while on campus
4. Students should not loiter in the corridors or on the campus during class hours. They
should make use of their free time by using the Library Computer facilities or other facilities
for extra-curricular activities
5. Habitual negligence of College work absence from internal examination, non-submission
of assignments, frequent absence from classes, etc will be reported to the parents and if not
corrected, may lead to discontinuance from the program
6.Students, if they have any grievance and personal problems shall bring them to the notice
of the Staff Advisor or the College authorities individually, but should not have recourse to
collective complaints or petitions to anybody within or outside the College.
7.Students are forbidden from attending or organizing any meeting in the College or in its
premises or collecting money for any purpose without the permission of the Management
8. Political activity in any form under any banner is not permitted in the campus
9. Wilful damages to property and equipment will have to be compensated for. Pasting of
posters and notices on walls or disfiguring the building and campus, in any form are
forbidden
10. Students organizing tours on their own accord without permission and teachers
accompanying them is banned Any act contrary to this rule will invite strict disciplinary action
LIBRARY
 
The Library has institutional membership with INFLIBNET E ShodhSindhu, DELNET and
AICTE-INDEST consortium.
The library has access to E-Journals of IEEE (IEL Online), ASCE (American Society for Civil
Engineers), ASME (American Society for Mechanical Engineers) and EBSCO Engineering
E-Books. etc.
A separate periodical section is there with 96 National Journals The Library is computerized
The circulation is based on barcode system
The important library services are
Digital Library Institutional Digital Repository, Reprographic Facility &quot;Engineering Portai
Library Instruction Classes E-Resources awareness programmes SDI - Selective
Dissemination Information CAS - Current Awareness Service OPAC - Online Public Access
Catalogue On demand literature search Library Blog Online access to E-Resources Book
Bank etc
Library Timing The Library will remain open from 8 30 am to 6.00 pm on all working days and
on Saturdays from 9 am to 4 pm
LIBRARY RULES AND REGULATIONS All members of the staff and students of the College
are entitled to
use the library All personal belongings such as textbooks notebooks files briefcases
umbrellas etc should be kept at the Property Counter However calculators and plain paper
for taking down notes can be brought inside the library
2 Books in the Reference Section are not open for borrowing
3.The library is kept open on all working days the timings will be specified on the notice
board At present the library is kept open from 8.30 am to 6.00 pm Schedule for the issue of
books will be notified from time to time
4. Silence should be observed within the library rooms and ha Students shall have their
identity cards with them while in the Libra and that produce along with the Barcode ID Cards
at the issue counter
5. Writing or underlining in the books periodicals maps etc is not allowed it required a tracing
may be taken with the permission the librarian The person in whose name a book periodical
is issue will be held responsible for the care of the same He/ She will have bear the
compensation for any damage or loss it hookah borrowed from the library are lost the matter
must be reported to the ibranan immediately The member has to replace the same or a later
edition of the same books lost/damaged within a week#39;s time the replacement is not possible
the following wi be the procedure 1o recover the cost of the book lost damaged
 
a) For a foreign edition The cost of book converted as per current conversion rate of the
foreign currency plus 200s of the cost will be recovered For an indian edition printed price of
the book plus 200% of the cost will be recovered
b) Periodicals same as above
6. B. Tech students can borrow 3 books and M. Tech students can borrow upto 4 books
7. The period of borrowing will be 14 days including the day of issue tor Tech and 20 days
for M Tech students ir the member fails to return B the book on the day a fine of Rs per day,
per book will be levied during the first week, Rs 2- per day per book during the second week
and Rs 5) per day thereafter
8.Members are not permitted to sub lend books borrowed from the library
9. Periodicals are regarded as reference books
10. In case a ID card is lost. the matter must be reported to the ubranan
11.All the books borrowed should be returned at the end of the Semester Examinations
12. A student leaving the Institution before or after completing the Course has to produce a
Non- Liability Certificate from the Librarian for getting any certificate or reimbursement of the
Caution Deposit from the College
CLASS HOURS
The College works under a full day system from 9,15 am to 4.30 pm
DRESS-CODE
Students shall wear the prescribed uniform while on the campus
They should dress modestly while attending Programmes on the campus or outside
IDENTITY CARD
It is mandatory that all Students should have their identity cards properly worn around their
necks while on the campus
LEAVE
1. For any kind of absence, leave application in the prescribed for sanctioned by the HOD
must be submitted to the Class Advisor
2 For absence exceeding three days, a letter from parent or guardian and a medical certificate
whenever necessary, should support application for leave of absence and for such leave of
 
absence application should be submitted on the day on which the student reporting at the
College
Industrial Training
Students going for Industrial Training outside Trivandrum should obtain written permission
from their parents and the consent letter should be submitted to the Head of the Department
concerned, through the class Advisor
External Technical Cultural Fests
Guidelines
1. A student interested to take part in an event should make a request ta the Staff-in-Charge
through the Staff Advisor and the HOD
2 The request should include an application for duty leave in the prescribed form (Form #06)
3. The student who has subsequently participated in the event, should submit, within a week
after the end of the duty leave period, copies ol certificates of participation / laurels won to
show that leave has been utilized for the purpose for which it was applied for
4. Relevant information regarding the above is conveyed to all the members of Staff
concerned 5. A record of every student in the class should be maintained by the respective
Class Staff Advisor. Details of leave taken by the students duty leave issued, other personal
details etc of each student should be recorded, preferably in a separate page
Procedure for selection:
a.Teams representing the collogo in Inter collegiate/University competitions shall get prior
permission.
b. A selection will be made, if the number of teams interested in participating in any event
exceeds the number that is permitted by the Event Coordinator
c. External Judges will be brought in, as and when needed, in order do an unbiased
selection of teams which will represent the College in the event.
d. in case the number of teams interest in participating in any event does not exceed the
number that is permitted try tevert Croedeat a screening will still be done internally to ensure
that the programme is of good standard
Note: Financial help may be provided to the needy sarticpans and design cases at the
discretion of the Management INTERNAL EXAMINATIONS
1) There will be at least two internal Examinations in a Semester
2) A Progress Report will be sent to the Guardian after the Interval Examination giving
details of maris scored. attendance gained and position in the Class
 
3) Guardians of those students who show poor progress should meet tha Stall Advisor on
receipt of the Report
ACADEMIC AWARDS
I.Mar Baselios Youth Excellence Award
Mar Baselios Youth Excellence Award has been instituted in honour of the Founder of
MBCET the late His Beatitude Moran Mor Cyril Baselios. Major Archbishop Catholicos True
to the spirit of the Founders on the award is intended to identify and promote the pursut of
excellence among the Engineering students of Kerala The winner is selected on the basis of
all round excellence in Academics Leadership Arts &amp; Sports Personal Conduct Ethics and
Social Service Activities A panel of experts will shortlist the entries for the award. The
winner will be selected from the shortlisted candidates after a personal interview The award
corrientes a onze money of Rs 1,00,000/- Certificate and Memento
II. Other Awards
1.ALL ROUND PERFORMANCE AWARD (year of admission-year of
admission 4) To be awarded to final year UG students
• Selection will be based on performance in Academics (50 points) Extracurricular &amp; Co-
curricular activities (50 points)
One student from each Department who secures maximum points out of 100 points
according to given criteria will be selected
• Improvement exams and Re-valuation can be considered Entries with condonation or
supplementary papers will be disqualified
2 THE BASELIAN AWARD
. For the best final year UG student Selection will be based on performance in Academics
(50 points) Extracurricular &amp; Co curricular activities (50 points) and an interview(25 points)
Two students from each Programme of the Department who secures first and second
positions based on scores out of 100 points according to given criteria of &quot;All Round
Performance Award will be selected for the interview
The shortlisted candidates will be interviewed by the Vice Chairman Governing Body/Experts
. The Final Year student who secures maximum points out of 125 wit be selected for the
Award.
. Same student can be awarded The Baselian Award &quot; and &quot;All Round Performance Award &quot;
of a particular Department if found qualified
 
• Improvement exams and Re-valuation can be considered Entries with condonation or
supplementary papers will be disqualified 3.
3. PROFICIENCY AWARD
Will be given to PG and UG students
Students with highest University Examination wo published results
One student from each Branch for UG
One student from each Stream for PG
Marks obtained in the first attempt only will be considered
Improvement marks will not be considered
4. BEST ACADEMIC PERFORMANCE AWARD FOR OUTGOING STUDENTS
For PG and UG students
 
One UG student from each Branch who secures highest CGPA 6 University Examinations
from S1 S2 to S8
One PG student from each Stream who secures highest CGPA University Examinations
from M1 to M4
If more than one student secures same highest CGPA a with same highest CGPA will be
awarded
Entries with supplementary papers will be disqualified
To be awarded on the occasion of Induction Ceremony of the First Year Students for UG
students and awarded on the College Day for PG students
5. ALL ROUND PERFORMANCE IN THE FIRST YEAR - &quot;Young Wizard of Science&quot;
Only first year UG students are entitled for the Award
One student from the first year wiLL be selected for the Award on base of AN Round
Performance. Performance in Proficiency Test, Index Marks and Character.
• Students passed in 1et and 2nd series examinations are eligible the Award
6 BASELIAN KAYIKA PRATHIBHA PURASKHARAM
For Outstanding Performance in sports games in the current Academic Year
 
Male and Female category
In a particular year it a student has an outstanding performance in Chess the name can be
changed as CHESS MASTER
7 BASELIAN KALA PRATHIBHA PURASKHARAM
For outstanding performance in arts in the current academic year
Male and female category
8. MEMORIAL AWARDS
Prot. R. V. Chitra Memorial Award
instituted by the Staff Members of Department of Electrical &amp; Electronics Engineering in
Fong Memory of Prot R V Chitra of their department Final year student who is Topper in
Electrical Machines subjects (Electrical Machines &amp; Il)
The interest accrued from the fixed deposit amount of Rs 25,000 will be given as Cash
Award
Annu Memorial Award
Instituted by the 2005-09 Students of Department of Civ Engineering in Fona Memory of
their beloved friend Ms Annu Varghese who passed away in 2008 The award includes Rs
3.000 and Memento
Awarded to the One Final Year Civil Engineering Student for his/her overall performance in
academics &amp; extracurricular activities
Mr. Arun Memorial Award
This award is instituted in the fond memory of Mr Arun V Abraham of B. Tech CSE 2010-15
batch by his parents for one final Year Computer Science &amp; Engineering Student who scores
the highest marks till final year in the University Exams
Mr. Jose Lawrence Memorial Award
This award is instituted in the fond memory of Mr. Jose Lawrence of B Tech ME 2010. 15
Batch by his parents for the Best Final year Project
Mr. Joel JijI Memorial Award
This award is instituted in the fond memory of Mr Joel J of Tech ME 2010-15 Batch by his
parents for one male &amp; female Outgoing student who excels in both Academics &amp; Arts
MBCET Alumni Awards
 
MBCETAA Outstanding Performer Award is given to ane student of the previous year pass
out batch for outstanding all round performance in academics and extracurricular activities
MBCETAA Special Achievement Award is for special achievements of the alumni
ACADEMIC ADVISING
The institution takes care of each student admitted through a uniga system of Academic
Counseling in which all members of the Teaching Set are involved. As far as possible the
same advisor continues for a bat throughout the Course, who will take care of the student
throughout his Course. The Academic Advisor ensure effective enrollment of students during
registration ensure that academic regulations are observed by students, meet them
regularly, tako special care of the weaker students thom necessary directions to overcome
their deficiencies and maintain contact with the parents keeping them abreast with the
performance of te ward The Advisors keep all student records up-to-date
STUDENT CHAPTERS OF PROFESSIONAL BODIES
Institution of Engineers (IE) Web: www.ioindia.org
The aims and objectives of the IE are to promote the general advancement of Engineering
and Engineering Science and their applicatore and to facilitate the exchange of information
and ideas on those subjects among the members and the persons attached to the
Institution. The College is an Institutional Membership holder of the Institution of Engineers
Indian Society for Technical Education (ISTE) Web www.isteonline.com
The Indian Society for Technical Education is a National Professional. Non-profit making
Society registered under the Societies Registration Act of 1860 The main thrust of the
activities of the Society related to research progress of teaching, learning, training and
extension services The Society also organizes various Seminars Summer and Winter
Schools etc throughout the Country to disseminate the latest advances in Technology and
upgrade the quality of Teaching The College is an Institutional Member of the ISTE and a
Chapter of the Society functions in the College
Computer Society of India (CSI) Web www.cs-india.org
The CSI Student Chapter of Mar Baselios College of Engineering &amp; Technology is one
among the biggest Student Chapters in the Kerala State The Chapter conducts an annual
quiz for the students of the College unos the name BYTES Another major event that is
conducted by the CSS ** Intercollegiate Technical Fest tilled CYNOSURE for the students
from various Engineering Colleges in and around the city of Trivandrum Currently he
Chapter has 153 student members, which is the largest one in Kerala State
Institution of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Web: www.ieee.org
 
IEEE founded in 1884 is the world&#39;s largest Professional Association dedicated to advancing
technological innovation and excellence for the beneta of humanity. IEEE will be essential to
the global technical community and to technical professionals everywhere, and be
universally recognized for the contributions of technology and of technical professionals in
improving global conditions. It is designed to serve professionals involved in all aspects of
the Engineering and Computing fields and related areas of science and technology that
underlie modern civilization IEEE and its members inspire a global community through
IEEE #39;s highly cited publications conferences technology standards, and professional and
educational activities. IEEE serves over 395.000 members in 160 countries. Through its
worldwide network of geographical units, publications web services and conferences IEEE
remains the world&#39;s largest Technical Professional Association
IEEE members of Mar Baselios College of Engineering &amp; Technology (MBCET) engage in
technical and professional active designed to advance the theory and practice of various
technologies The Institute strives to be supportive and responsive to the needs of the
members by seeking to anticipate and manage change in ways that will benefit members
and the societies in which they live
IEEE Computer Society Web www.computer.org
IEEE Computer Society is a Professional Society of IEEE founded In 1971. dedicated to
Computer Science and Technology it is the trusted source for information networking, and
career development for a global community of researchers, educators, software engineers.
IT professionals, employers, and students. Its purpose is to advance the theory, practice and
application of Computer and Information processing science and technology new
professional standing of its members The Computer Society workshops and conferences,
published a variety of peer-reviewed Merature, operates technical committees, and develops
IEEE computing standards. It supports more than 200 Chapters worldwide and participates
in educational activities at all levels of the profession including distance meaning,
accreditation of higher education programs in Computer Science and professional
certification in Software Engineering
IEEE Computer Society Student chapter in MBCET is actively orang nuMber of technical
events and workshop to make the students up to date with current trends and technologies
in computing.
Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET) Web: www.tholet.in
Evolved from its early beginnings in 1871 as the Society of Telegram Engineers (STE) and
later as Institution of Electrical Engineers (IEE) in 18a7 the IET was formed in 2006 through
the merger of IEE and lIE (Institution s Incorporated Engineers). Registered as a charity in
England &amp; granted Royal Charter, the mission of IET is to promote the exchange of
information and ideas for the advancement of Science. Engineering and Techno worldwide.
Their annual activity programmes are designed to expand he professional development of
Local Engineers through Lectures and Technical Visits and encourage young people to join
the Engineering Profession by participating in Careers and Science Fairs
 
The IET Student Branch of Mar Baselios College of Engineering and Technology is in its
infancy. Working with the IET Student chapter in College of Engineering. Trivandrum. the
IET-MBCET student branch is however actively involved in organizing a number of technical
events Workshops and Life Skill Orientation Courses for the benefit of its students The
Student chapter is open to students of Electrical, Electronics, Mechanical Information
Technology and Computer Science Engineering
American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME)
ASME MBCET Chapter (VORTEX) was brought to life in the year 2017 Since then the
chapter has spearheaded many programmes conferences and workshops for students and
was instrumental to cater to the needs of their all around development
ASME member have access to state of the art web services seminars, e-books and
webinars. ASME Student chapter conducts several cultural and technical programmes. Their
flagship event E-FEST AND E-EX are held every year in all continents ASME also provides
scholarships to meritorious students
The Indian Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air Conditioning Engineers (ISHRA The
Indian Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air Conditioning
Engineers (ISHRAE) was founded in 1981 at New Delhi by a group of eminent HVAC &amp; R
professionals. ISHRAE MBCET student chapter was official installed on 22nd February
2019. ISHRAE objectives are advancement of the Arts and Sciences of Heating, Ventilation,
Air Conditioning and Refrigeration Engineering and Related Services, Continuing education
of Members and other interested persons in the said sciences through Lectures Workshops,
Product Presentations Publications. Expositions and Encouragement of scientific research
American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE)
American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) aims to provide the platform for all young civil
engineers to develop and grow to become globally competent. ethically strong and service
minded engineers of the future American Society of Civil Engineer is a professional body
founded in 1852 to represent Civil Engineers worldwide in over 177 countries It was the
greatest privilege to get the ASCE Student Chapter approved in Mar Baselios College of
Engineering and Technology on October 3&quot; 2017 MBCET was the 1st college to receive this
approval in Kerala under the ASCE India Southern Section The chapter was inaugurated on
13th November 2017 by the ASCE India Southern Section Secretary Dr. S Basil Gnanappa
and ASCE Student Chapter Practitioner Advisor, Mr Kesavan Gangadharan
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES (ITMS)
Information Technology Management and Services (ITMS) division effectively manages the
IT Infrastructure facilities and provides quality IT Services for the Institution#39;s Research
Academic and Administrative needs ITMS is headed by the Head-ITMS and has four sub
units, namely Server Administration, Network Administration Software Development and
Systems Support having a total of 9 staff
 
Core Services
• Installation. Operation and Management of the computer backbone network in the College
buddings
Installation and Maintenance of all computer hardware and system fike UPS, WIFI. Access
Points LCD Projectors. Biometric Machines etc
Connection of the College Network to Internet through UTM device and its management
Provision of a central storage space and email service for all staff
Installation Operation and Management of Student Management System, Course
Management System (Moodle), Asset Tracking and Management System, Biometric
Attendance System and other Campus Management Software
Coordination of Campus-wide software licenses.
Coordination of on-line publication on the College website
B-Hub
B Hub is a unique notwork centre in the Mar ivanios Vidyanagar Campus initiated by MBCET
B- Hub. is platform to open new vistas lo promote an entrepreneurial ecosystem through
Knowledge sharing. Training And Networking with the involvement and collaboration of
Corporates, industries. Trade bodies, government agencies and educational institutions. It is
a holistic approach, a combination of Business Centre. Activity C and innovation Exchange
Centre it is intended to be a model for the bone between entrepreneurship and campus
innovations to give new dimension to Engineering studies
Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam Centre for Innovation, Incubation &amp; Entrepreneurship
This Centre, established in 2016. in collaboration with the Kenna State Industrial
Development Corporation (KSIDC). aims at providing facil, for the MBC Tians who intend to
begin startup ventures along with and even after the completion of their B. Tech Programme
Space Avionics Test &amp; Evaluation Lab (SATEL)
MBCET has set up an Avionics Package Testing Lab in association with the VSSC
Trivandrum An air-conditioned lab with 80 sqm space as been set-up with clean-room facility
inside the lab. The lab is equipped with high-end test and measurement facility with ESD
flooring This includes thermal chamber data recorder synthesized function generators and
precision OC sources To start with small packages such as amplifiers tar etc will be tested in
addition this iab will provide the students with an opportunity to understand the stringent
requirements of components requires for Space Electronics and the various related tost and
measurement processes involved
E-Yantra Robotics Lab
 
This Nodar Centre of the E Yantra IIT Bombay, organizes sko development Programmes in
Robotics &amp; Embedded Systems for Faculty Members and Students Hands on Training is
provided by the experts from IIT, Mumbai
INNOVATION &amp; ENTREPRENEURSHIP DEVELOPMENT CENTRE (IEDC)
The main objective of the Innovative and Entrepreneurship Development Cell is to educate
and train students for developing entrepreneurial capabilities through training programmes
which will boom up innovative ideas and creativity
CENTRE FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION
With an aim to promote Continuing Education Programmes and Industrial Consultancies, the
Centre conducts Training Programmes. As On Courses and Workshops for Students and
Graduate Engineers
CONSULTANCY CELL
The Cell functions to organize Extension Service Programme to the benefit of the Society
The Cell acts as a consultant to various Government and Private Organizations carrying out
projects in Design testing Burvey and other related areas
ENERGY AUDIT CELL
The Energy Audit Cell aims to take-up projects and consultancy in Energy related areas It
seeks to find out methods to reduce the Energy consumption The Col encourages the use of
Green Energy and minimizing of the use of Fossil Fuels
TRAINING AND PLACEMENT UNIT
The Training and Placement Unit of MBCET has been playing a vital role since its inception
in 2004 The TPU with representatives from ever batch works towards arranging Training
Programs Workshops Seminars making arrangements for various Aptitude Test, Competitive
Examinations Guidance and Counseling Classes and securing placements for students in
reputed firms MBCET offers the right settings for campus recruitment examinations The
campus nas functioned as a host venue for combined campus recruitment for the top
companies such as infosys Wipro usT Global CTS IBS NeST LIS etc A separato facility ihe
students Amenity Center is earmarked for the GPU activities
EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES
Special emphasis is given to extra-curricular activities and the Physical Education
Department gives the necessary suppon in this regard An Amenities Contre a unique tacity
of MBCET with oth area of about 3000 sq.m. provides indoor playing facility for Shuttle
Badminton Basketball Volleyball Table Tennis Boards etc and facilities for Photographic
Club Nature Club Social Service Unit Departmental Associations and Placement activities all
under me direction of a Senior Professor
 
CLUBS &amp; COMMITTEES
For the effective realization of the goals and objectives of the Institution about 40 clubs &amp;
committees nave been formed in addition to the es mentioned earlier The Vice-Principal will
coordinate the activities of Cubes For each Club there will be a Faculty in-charge
The various Cells and Committees functioning in the College du. Admission Committee
Research Promotion Committee. Resource Monitoring Cell Examination Cell Purchase
Committee Discipline Committee, Industry Collaboration Coll Consultancy Coll Library
Committee. Anti Ragging Committee Ethics Committee. Staff Grievance Redressa
Committee Student &#39;s Welfare Grievance Rodressai Committee Women's Grievance
Redressal Cell (UGC) Women&#39;s Studies Unit Counseling Cat Hostel Committee Canteen
and Cafeteria Committee, Website Committee Publication Wing Archives Campus
Maintenance Committee, yoga and Meditation Centre, Photography Club Nature / Eco Club,
Sports Club Music
Club
MBCETAA
MBCET - the Alumni Association of the college has been ver active over the years The
Association sponsors the cash prize of the Mar Baselios Youth Excellence Award, besides
the Proficiency Awards given every years
Patron: Fr. John Vilayil
 
President : Dr.T.M.George
 
Vice- President : Mr. Aswin Mr. Deepak R.B
Gen Secretary: Mr. Deepak B
 
Joint Secretary :Mr Anoop K Johnson
 
Treasurer: Ms C Soji Rajan
Parent Teacher Association (PTA)
The Parent Teacher Association of the College contributes positively to the smooth and
effective functioning of the College. The Parent Teacher Association provides a common
platform for the Parents and Teachers for interaction and to discuss matters promoting
academic excellence in the Institution. The Association enables to maintain a healthy
relationship among the Faculty. Students and Parents
 
President : Dr. T.M. George (Principal)
Vice President : Jojimon Thomas Prof.
Secretary : (Dr.) M.J. Jayasree
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS FORMATION
Special Lectures, Seminars and Symposia will be arranged by the College Authorities to
inculcate Moral and Spiritual values in the students Students are advised to make the best
use of such facilities All Catholic students are expected to attend religious
instruction/discussions arranged for them.
FACILITIES ON THE CAMPUS
College Bus
Students can make use of the facility of the College bus regularly after registering their
names and getting Yearly passes in advance Requested for one-way Pass will not be
entertained.
Hostel Facility
Separate hostel facilities for Men and Women are provided in a homely atmosphere.
Application for admission to the hostel should be submitted in the prescribed form at the time
of admission/registration
1. Mar Aprem Hostel for Men
A common room with various recreational facilities is provided for the overall development of
the students Adequate medical facilities are always available The hostel mess is run on the
dividing system MBCET Hostel for men (MAR APREM HOSTEL) can accommodate 400
students on single room twin sharing or three beds basis Spacious rooms with separate area
for living and study are provided
Chlef Warden Fr. John Vilayil Phone 0471-2534415
Wardens
(1) Fr Raju Parukkoor
(2) Fr Daniel Kutangaen Phone 8304841964
2. St. Alphonsa Hostel for Women
Accommodation facility for 50 students is available. The hostel owned by the Major
Archdiocese of Trivandrum is run by Rev Sisters of the
 
Sacred Heart Congregation
Warden: Rev. Sr. Tessy SH Phone: 0471-2530160
3. Mary Matha Ladies Hostel
Accommodation is provided for 250 women students at this Hostel owned by the Major
Archdiocese of Trivandrum run by Rev. Sisters of the FDJSH Congregation
Wardens
1. Rev. St. Jessin FDJSH
2 Rev Sr Mariat FDJSH
3. Rev. Sr. List FOJSH
Phone: 8201807569
Staff Quarters
Accommodation is provided for the members of the Staff at the Staff Quarters.
Amenity Centre
The Students Amenity Centre. Olympia. is a three storeyed building complex It houses a
large auditorium for conducting large-scale tests recruitment drives, elc Separate rooms are
set apart for group discussions and interviews. It houses also a Store, Gymnasium facilities
for playing Badminton BasketBall, Table Tennis and so on
Bank
Branches of the Catholic Syrian Bank and South Indian Bank are functioning on the campus.
Canteen and Cafeteria
A Canteen attached to the Amenity Centre functions on all working days. Noon Meals and
Other refreshments are provided on all working days Besides the Canteen. Cafeterias also
provide refreshment on all working days
College Store
Note Books, Record Books and Stationery are supplied to students at fair price through the
Store, attached to the Amenity Centre.
Mar Gregorios Renewal Centro &amp; Girideepam Convention Centre Facility for Seminars /
Workshops / Conferences is provided here
 
Counseling Centre
The Students can seek the guidance and support of the Student Counselors for their social,
emotional and psychological issues. In order to ensure effective counseling, the Counselors
work in cooperation with the departments, the parents and the students Information Desk /
Reception
An information Desk / Reception will be functioning from 8.30 am to 5.00 pm on all working
days. Necessary information can be gathered from there Tel: 0471 - 2545866, 68, 72
Telephone Facility
Common Telephone Facility is available at the Information Desk
Important Notice
Students shall desist from creating spreading trolls, images and messages in Social Media
tarnishing any Person Persons Faith or Objects relating to any Faith which come under the
purview of Cyber Crimes
PROGRAMME OUTCOMES (POS)
Engineering Graduates will be able to
Engineering knowledge: Apply the knowledge of mathematics science engineering
fundamentals and an engineering specialization to the solution of complex engineering
problems
Problem analysis Identify formulate review research Morature, and
analyze complex engineering problems reaching substantiated
conclusions using first principles of matematica natural sciences
and engineering sciences
3 Design/development of solutions Design solutions for complex engineering problems and
design system components or processes that meet the specified needs with appropriate
consideration for the public health and safety and the cultural societal and environmental
considerations
Conduct investigations of complex problems Use research based knowledge and research
methods including design of experiments analysis and interpretation of data and synthesis of
the information to provided valid conclusions
Modern tool usage Create select and apply appropriate techniques resources and modern
engineering and IT tools including prediction and modeling to complex engineering activities
with an understanding of the limitations
 
The engineer and society Apply reasoning informed by the contextual knowledge to assess
societat health safety, legal and cultural issues and the consequent responsibilities relevant
to the professional engineering practice
Environment and sustainability Understand the impact of the professional engineering
solutions in societal and environmental contexts and demonstrate the knowledge of and
need to sustainable development
Ethics Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics and responsibilities and
norms of the engineering practice
Individual and team work Function effectively as an individual and as a member or leader in
diverse teams and in multidisciplinary settings
Communication Communicate effectively on complex engineering activities with the
engineering community and with society at tarpe such as being able to comprehend and
write effective reports and design documentation make effective presentations, and give and
receive clear instructions
Project management and finance Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the
engineering and management principles and apply these to one&#39;s own work as a member
and leader in a team manage projects and in multidisciplinary environments
Life - long learning Recognize the need for and have the preparation and ability to engage in
independent and ifo: long learning in the broadest context of technological change
DEPARTMENT OF CIVIL ENGINEERING
Programme Educational Objectives (PEOs)
Graduates of the Programmo will have successful career as Cw Engineering practitioners
entrepreneurs or professionals: addressing the needs of the industry with a global
perspective
They will contribute to society as ethical and responsible citizens with proven expertise
They will engage in continuous professional development and advance to leadership roles in
their chosen career
Programme Specific Outcomes (PSOs)
Engineering Graduates will be able to
a) Provide feasible and sustainable solutions to problems in various Civil Engineering
disciplines such as Structural Environments Geotechnical. Transportation and Construction
Engineering
 
b) Apply the principles, methods software and codes of practices design various Civil
Engineering Systems DEPARTMENT OF COMPUTER SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING
Programme Educational Objectives (PEOs)
Graduates will be successful professionals in industries of core a interdisciplinary nature of
entrepreneurs demonstrating effective leadership and excellent team work
Graduates will expand the horizon of knowledge through higher education or research,
leading to self directed professional development
Graduates will demonstrate professional attitude and ethics while providing solutions in
societal and environmental context
Programme Specific Outcomes (PSOs) Engineering Graduates will be able to
(a) Apply Algorithmic Principles Programming Skills and Software Engineering Principles to
design, develop and evaluate Software Systems of varying complexities
(b) Apply knowledge of Systems integration to design and implement computer based
systems
(c) Solve reat world and socially relevant problems with the knowledge in recent and
advanced Computing Technologies
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRONICS AND COMMUNICATION ENGINEERING
PROGRAMME EDUCATIONAL OBJECTIVES (PEOs);
The graduates of the Programme will have successful career as Professionals in Industry or
an Entrepreneurs encompassing a broad spectrum of areas related to Electronics and
Communication Engineering
They will be able to adapt to the changing needs of industry and Academia through
continuous learning and professional upgrading
They will exhibit social responsibility in their pursuit for technical excellence
PROGRAMME SPECIFIC OUTCOMES (PSO)
Engineering Graduates will be able to
a) Design Electronic Circuits and systems for Communication Monitoring and Control
Applications,
b) Demonstrate the knowledge. in Electronics Signal Processing
Embedded Systems and Communication Engineering, required for providing Technical
Solutions to real world problems
 
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING PROGRAMME
EDUCATIONAL OBJECTIVES (PEOS)
Graduates will succeed as Professionals in industry or as Entrepreneurs in Electrical and
Electronic Engineering and related disciplines
Graduates will be able to adapt to the advances in Technology b continuously acquiring
knowledge and skills with an urge to innovation
Graduates will be socially committed individuals exhibiting professional ethics in addressing
technical and engineering challenges
PROGRAMME SPECIFIC OUTCOMES (PSOs)
Engineering Graduates will be able to
a) To apply the knowledge in Electrical and Electronics Engineering for the design of Power
Generation Transmission. Distribution and utilization systems
b) To demonstrate the knowledge required to design develop, test and implement Electrical
&amp; Electronics systems
DEPARTMENT OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERING Programme Educational Objectives
(PEOs)
Graduates will be Engineering Professional Innovators or Entrepreneurs engaged in
Technology Development of implementation at Engineering Systems meeting the industrial
needs
Graduates will be successful in the pursuit of higher education or research in Engineering or
Management Studies
Graduates will be self disciplined and capable of applying technical concepts and skills for
the benefit of society
Programme Specific Outcomes (PSOs)
Engineering Graduates will be able to
Apply the concepts of Solid Mechanics in the design of Mechanics Engineering systems
Apply knowledge of Thermal and Fuld Sciences to solve Engineer Problems
Use Simulation Tools and Computer integrated Systems Mechanical Engineering
Apply advanced manufacturing processes and modern industry Managment Techniques in
Engineering
 
I am good, how are you?
I am a new born fetus, how old are you?
Excuse me! boring? No! Watching paint dry is more entertaining than talking to you. 
I was programmed by some mbcet students. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

